Hello everybody and welcome back.
In the past what we've had to do is eject from our player character and assign ourselves as an actor
that can open our doors.
Well in this lecture we're going to learn how we can go ahead and assign our character in code so it's
able to open the doors and this thing gives us a lot of possibilities.
We've gone into the corner perhaps put a bit of a forwardness over there as well and we we've escaped.
Let's find out more okay.
So we're talking about how our players now starting to interact with the world.
Now we don't have a character in our in our code at the moment or in our scene and we're not going to
do that in this particular session because it's going to add a ton of extra code that we just don't
need at the moment.
And it will just complicate the project more so than is necessary now.
In the past we've used ghetto owner to search bottom up.
So we'll be with our open door and we will get owner to see what actor it's attached to.
However instead of doing that a bottom up approach we can do a top down approach so we can use the get
world function in order to search top down what's in our world what actors are in our world what characters
what classes can we gain access to and I should at this point just point out that get world would be
returning the level that we're currently in.
Of course a game can have multiple levels.
Now the game mode itself specifies that default porn class we've had a look of that briefly and we'll
have more detail once we start setting up our player in a bit.
Now the default porn can be considered your body.
It's transient.
It comes in and out when you press play and when you are not playing the game.
However the player controller your mind persists.
So we can access the player controller if access is the right word.
We can use the player controller in order to find the pawn that is your body within the game and the
player controller class has and gets porn as a function that will return as the porn that the player
controller is controlling.
Wow.
Deep breath there.
Okay.
So let's dive over into unreal and explore some of that and then we'll go back over into the code and
actually get this working.
Okay.
So over in the unreal just to demonstrate what I've been talking about how when we go ahead and press
play and then injects ourselves so we can just see what's going on.
This is like our body.
And of course us flying around is almost like our mind separated from our body.
This itself is the default porn that we can take control of or use.
But one of the ways we can get it is through the player control itself just because of the way that
these actors are structured.
So we're going to have to include a couple of header files not only because we're going to be going
for the player controller but also because we're coming from the top the get.
World we're not going to have access to anything within there unless we also include the necessary header
for that as well so let's go ahead over into the U.S. Code and we only need to look at the CBP file
the actual implementation itself at the top here we're going to require a couple of header files we're
going to require the world and the player controller and this would be a great time for your little
challenge.
So go ahead and find out which header files we're going to need for the player controller and get world
pause video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
How did you get on.
Well let's dive back into the code and see if you were right.
Now the world itself.
So let's go at the top here and hash include them.
So again to hash include what do we need first well the world is under engine.
So if we go for engine forward slash world of course these are things you can look up as well.
And then we've got another hash include that we need we need to hash include I believe this is under
the game framework forward slash character controller character player controller player player player
controllers a player control H XOM.
So we've got those two header files there.
And then what we can do is underneath our pressure plate code or above it it doesn't really matter.
I'm going to just place it in line so it's kind of historical I might move it around later on.
OK.
So what do we need to do.
Well we need we need to search from the world itself.
So what we can do is get the world and then the parentheses.
And because it's a pointer we're going to use the arrow operator on it.
Now what can we do from here.
Well we need to get that first player control and our first player controller then you might have more
controllers in the scene you see.
So the first player controller is just the first player controller.
Now the first player controller sorry I interrupted myself there the first player controller is a single
player game essentially and then we go ahead and what we can do here is if we hover over we'll see that
it is a pointer again so we can go ahead arrow operator.
Now we can start looking a bit in a bit more detail and we need to get the porn itself.
So this is the porn that the first player controller is using.
Now what does this return.
Well this returns are porn which is useful.
And remember the pawns inherits from actors which means that the actor that opens we can set to this
because a porn is a subset of actors.
So what we can say is that the actor that opens equals what this line returns.
Now incidentally whilst we're here if we hover back over get porn for a moment we can see that is also
a pointer.
So if we wanted to drill in a little bit further we can actually get other properties of our player
within our world as well if we wanted to which is pretty awesome.
But we don't need to do that at the moment.
So if we set the actor opens as what's this returns which will be the porn our default porn in this
case we save our implementation file and go back over into one reel.
Of course you need to compile our code and now all being well what we should be able to do providing
we've got it all right is walk into our collision volume and the doors will open OK let's go ahead and
press play and walk backwards.
Hey excellent we have our doors opening.
That's exactly what we want.
And of course now we can just stroll out.
There's no door closing to trap us back in the room.
So I think that's the next thing that we're going to have to sort out we're currently opening the doors
absolutely fine but really wants to close them as well.
How did you guys get on.
Have you got your player successfully opening the doors when you walk into the collision volume.
This is really exciting because we've almost completed our core game mechanic here of the door opening
is shutting with links placed in that volume and I'll see you will in the next lecture.